The Indian peninsula is separated from mainland Asia by the Himalayas; The Country is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal in the east, the Arabian Sea in the west, and the Indian Ocean to the south.
Geographic Coordinates of india Lying entirely in the Northern Hemisphere, the Country extends between 8째 4' and 37째 6' latitudes north of the Equator, and 68째 7' and 97째 25' longitudes east of it.
Indian Standard Time is GMT + 05:30 .
Total Area of India	3.3 Million sq km.
Telephone Country Code	 +91.
Border Countries  Afghanistan and Pakistan to the north-west; China, Bhutan and Nepal to the north; Myanmar to the east; and Bangladesh to the east of West Bengal; Sri Lanka is separated from India by a narrow channel of sea, formed by Palk Strait and the Gulf of Mannar.
Coastline of india is 7,517 km encompassing the mainland, Lakshadweep Islands, and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
The climate of India can broadly be classified as a tropical monsoon one; But, in spite of much of the northern part of India lying beyond the tropical zone, the entire country has a tropical climate marked by relatively high temperatures and dry winters, There are four seasons:
winter (December-February)
summer (March-June)
south-west monsoon season (June-September)
post monsoon season (October-November).

Terrain	The mainland comprises of four regions, namely the great mountain zone, plains of the Ganga and the Indus, the desert region, and the southern peninsula.
Natural Resources are include Coal, iron ore, manganese ore, mica, bauxite, petroleum, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas, magnesite, limestone, arable land, dolomite, barytes, kaolin, gypsum, apatite, phosphorite, steatite, fluorite, etc.
Natural Hazards are Monsoon floods, flash floods, earthquakes, droughts, and landslides.
Current environment issues Air pollution control, energy conservation, solid waste management, oil and gas conservation, forest conservation, etc..
International Agreements are Rio Declaration on environment and development, Cartagena Protocol on biosafety, Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on climatic change, World Trade Agreement, Helsinki Protocol to LRTAP on the reduction of sulphur emissions of nitrogen oxides or their transboundary fluxes (Nox Protocol), and Geneva Protocol to LRTAP concerning the control of emissions of volatile organic compounds or their transboundary fluxes (VOCs Protocol)..
India's population, as on 1 March 2011 stood at 1,210,193,422 (623 million males and 586 million females)..
The average annual exponential growth rate stands at 1.64 % during 2001-2011..
Birth Rate, The Crude Birth rate was 18.3 in 2009..
Death Rate,	The Crude Death rate was 7.3 in 2009..
Life Expectancy Rate 65.8 years (Males); 68.1 years (Females) in the period 2006-2011..
Sex Ratio of india is 940 females per 1000 males according to 2011 census.
Nationality
Ethnic Groups All the five major racial types - Australoid, Mongoloid, Europoid, Caucasian, and Negroid find representation among the people of India.
Religions, According to the 2001 census, out of the total population of 1,028 million in the Country, Hindus constituted the majority with 80.5%, Muslims came second at 13.4%, followed by Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, and others.
Languages, There are 22 different languages that have been recognised by the Constitution of India, of which Hindi is an Official Language. Article 343(3) empowered Parliament to provide by law for continued use of English for official purposes.
Literacy, According to the provisional results of the 2011 census, the literacy rate in the Country stands at 74.04 per cent, 82.14% for males and 65.46% for females.
Country Name, Republic of India; Bharat Ganrajya.
Government Type	Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic with a Parliamentary system of Government.
New Delhi is the Capital of india.
Administrative Divisions are 28 States and 8 Union Territories.
The Constitution of India came into force on 26th January 1950.
Legal System the Constitution of India is the fountain source of the legal system in the Country.
Executive Branch, The President of India is the Head of the State, while the Prime Minister is the Head of the Government, and runs office with the support of the Council of Ministers who form the Cabinet Ministry.
Legislative Branch, The Indian Legislature comprises of the Lok Sabha (House of the People) and the Rajya Sabha (Council of States) forming both the Houses of the Parliament.
Judicial Branch	The Supreme Court of India is the apex body of the Indian legal system, followed by other High Courts and subordinate Courts.
The National Flag is a horizontal tricolour of deep saffron (kesaria) at the top, white in the middle, and dark green at the bottom in equal proportion. At the centre of the white band is a navy blue wheel, which is a representation of the Ashoka Chakra at Sarnath.

Independence day of india is 15th August 1947 (From the British Colonial Rule).
Netaji's birthday is 23th January.
Republic day of india 26th January.
Children's day is 14th november.
vivekanand's borthday 12th January.
Gandhi Jayanti (Mahatma Gandhi's Birthday) is on 2nd October.

